README.md, before:

xml-architecture
================

I recently was given a large pub-sub architecture that was very complicated to understand.  

So, I constructed an xml view of the architecture and decided to output the architecture visually using graphviz.

A very simple banking architecture is included here to show some of the outputs that can be created.

Services View                      | Adapters View
-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------
![Services](./doc/Sample/services-label.png) | ![Adapters](./doc/Sample/adapters-top-label.png)

##Banking Sample
===
Simple banking scenario with 3 Services Customer, Loans and Accounts and some of the messages that flow between them.

###Configuration###

The xml configuration is pretty easy to understand and can be viewed here: [Source](./doc/Sample/Sample.xml)

```xml
<Architecture>
  <Service name='Customer Service'>
    <Adapter name='Customer Details Application Adapter' application='Customer Details'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Customer Created'/>
        <Message name='Customer Updated'/>
      </Publish>
    </Adapter>
  </Service>
  
  <Service name='Loans Service'>
    <Adapter name='Loans Application Adapter' application='Loans'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Loan Created'/>
        <Message name='Loan Updated'/>
      </Publish>
      <Subscribe>
        <Message name='Customer Updated'/>
      </Subscribe>
    </Adapter>
    <Adapter name='Loans Approval Application Adapter' application='Loan Approval'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Loan Approved'/>
      </Publish>
    </Adapter>
    <Adapter name='Loans Payment Application Adapter' application='Loan Payment'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Loan Payment'/>
      </Publish>
    </Adapter>
  </Service>
  
  <Service name='Accounts Service'>
    <Adapter name='Accounts Creation Application Adapter' application='Account Creation'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Account Created'/>
      </Publish>
      <Subscribe>
        <Message name='Loan Approved'/>
        <Message name='Customer Created'/>
      </Subscribe>
    </Adapter>
    <Adapter name='Accounts Application Adapter' application='Accounts'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Account Credited'/>
        <Message name='Account Debited'/>
      </Publish>
      <Subscribe>
        <Message name='Account Created'/>
        <Message name='Loan Payment'/>
      </Subscribe>
    </Adapter>
  </Service>
</Architecture>

```

Output
===
The output from the tool is a set of PNG files generated using GraphViz.

##Services View

The Services view show the main services and the messages that are published.
####Simple Services View
Simple Services View shows the connections between the services (but not the messages)

![Simple Services Output](./doc/Sample/services-simple.png)

####Services View
Services View shows the connections between the services and the names of the messages

![Simple Services Output](./doc/Sample/services-label.png)

####Services and Messages View
Services and Messages view shows the services and messages as nodes.

![Services Output](./doc/Sample/services-node.png)


##Adapter Views
The Adapters view shows the services as groupings and the adapters internally with the messages that are published.
Each view is generated using a top to bottom approach and a left to right alternative.

####Simple Adapters View
Shows the Services and the Adapters and how they are connected by messages

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Adapters Top](./doc/Sample/adapters-top-simple.png)|![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/adapters-left-simple.png)

####Adapters View
Shows the Services and the Adapters and the messages that connect them

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Adapters Top](./doc/Sample/adapters-top-label.png) |![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/adapters-left-label.png)

####Adapters and Messages View
Shows the Services, Adapters and the messages as nodes and how they are connected

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Adapters Top](./doc/Sample/adapters-top-node.png)  |![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/adapters-left-node.png)

###Messages Views###
Soon...


I am not sure if xml-architecture is the right name for this.... will have to think up a better one soon.

Commit message:

Added Top/Bottom and Left/Right Services diagrams

README.md, after:

xml-architecture
================

I recently was given a large pub-sub architecture that was very complicated to understand.  

So, I constructed an xml view of the architecture and decided to output the architecture visually using graphviz.

A very simple banking architecture is included here to show some of the outputs that can be created.

Services View                      | Adapters View
-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------
![Services](./doc/Sample/services-label.png) | ![Adapters](./doc/Sample/adapters-top-label.png)

##Banking Sample
===
Simple banking scenario with 3 Services Customer, Loans and Accounts and some of the messages that flow between them.

###Configuration###

The xml configuration is pretty easy to understand and can be viewed here: [Source](./doc/Sample/Sample.xml)

```xml
<Architecture>
  <Service name='Customer Service'>
    <Adapter name='Customer Details Application Adapter' application='Customer Details'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Customer Created'/>
        <Message name='Customer Updated'/>
      </Publish>
    </Adapter>
  </Service>
  
  <Service name='Loans Service'>
    <Adapter name='Loans Application Adapter' application='Loans'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Loan Created'/>
        <Message name='Loan Updated'/>
      </Publish>
      <Subscribe>
        <Message name='Customer Updated'/>
      </Subscribe>
    </Adapter>
    <Adapter name='Loans Approval Application Adapter' application='Loan Approval'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Loan Approved'/>
      </Publish>
    </Adapter>
    <Adapter name='Loans Payment Application Adapter' application='Loan Payment'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Loan Payment'/>
      </Publish>
    </Adapter>
  </Service>
  
  <Service name='Accounts Service'>
    <Adapter name='Accounts Creation Application Adapter' application='Account Creation'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Account Created'/>
      </Publish>
      <Subscribe>
        <Message name='Loan Approved'/>
        <Message name='Customer Created'/>
      </Subscribe>
    </Adapter>
    <Adapter name='Accounts Application Adapter' application='Accounts'>
      <Publish>
        <Message name='Account Credited'/>
        <Message name='Account Debited'/>
      </Publish>
      <Subscribe>
        <Message name='Account Created'/>
        <Message name='Loan Payment'/>
      </Subscribe>
    </Adapter>
  </Service>
</Architecture>

```

Output
===
The output from the tool is a set of PNG files generated using GraphViz.

##Services View

The Services view show the main services and the messages that are published.
####Simple Services View
Simple Services View shows the connections between the services (but not the messages)

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Services Top](./doc/Sample/services-top-simple.png)|![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/services-left-simple.png)

####Services View
Services View shows the connections between the services and the names of the messages

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Services Top](./doc/Sample/services-top-label.png)|![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/services-left-label.png)

####Services and Messages View
Services and Messages view shows the services and messages as nodes.

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Services Top](./doc/Sample/services-top-node.png)|![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/services-left-node.png)


##Adapter Views
The Adapters view shows the services as groupings and the adapters internally with the messages that are published.
Each view is generated using a top to bottom approach and a left to right alternative.

####Simple Adapters View
Shows the Services and the Adapters and how they are connected by messages

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Adapters Top](./doc/Sample/adapters-top-simple.png)|![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/adapters-left-simple.png)

####Adapters View
Shows the Services and the Adapters and the messages that connect them

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Adapters Top](./doc/Sample/adapters-top-label.png) |![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/adapters-left-label.png)

####Adapters and Messages View
Shows the Services, Adapters and the messages as nodes and how they are connected

Top to Bottom                                        |  Left to Right
-----------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------
![Adapters Top](./doc/Sample/adapters-top-node.png)  |![Adapters Left](./doc/Sample/adapters-left-node.png)

###Messages Views###
Soon...


I am not sure if xml-architecture is the right name for this.... will have to think up a better one soon.
